---
layout: post
title: 'Key Establishment with A Trusted Party'
category: 'Cryptographic Protocols'
author: 'reo'
tags: Protocols Diffie-Hellman Kerberos Needham-Schroeder
mathjax: true
---

Why are Key Establishment protocols needed? How do they prevent attacks on
Confidentiality?
We answer these questions by building up to the Kerberos protocol
from scratch. This discussion focuses on protocols using symmetric
cryptography with a trusted party.

## Contents
{:.no_toc}

* Content
{:toc}

<br>

* * *

## Assumptions

* * *

We assume Trent is a third party which can be trusted (ie. will not cheat)
and Mallory an active attacker able to intercept and alter messages.
We also assume Alice and Trent share a symmetric key $$K_{AT}$$; similarly
Bob and Trent share symmetric key $$K_{BT}$$.

<br>

* * *

## First Attempt

* * *

We could start with a technique we're familiar with so Alice and Bob agree on
a shared key.
[Diffie-Hellman Key exchange](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diffie%E2%80%93Hellman_key_exchange).

Using this alone has one fatal flaw, nothing is stopping
Mallory from intercepting the communication, sending her
own public key under Bob's name, and eavesdropping the commuunication
between them that way

```
             A           ||          M               ||            B
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"I want to speak to Bob" -> "I want to speak to Bob" ->
                         <- "Hi, I'm Bob"            <- "Hi, I'm Bob"
"Here's my Public Key" A -> "Here's my Public Key" A ->
                         <- "Here's my Public Key" M <- "Here's my Public Key" B
```

Mallory can then proceed to forward Alice's messages to Bob making
it appear like a regular session while in fact Mallory is listening.
This is appropriately called a "man-in-the-middle" attack.
Let's try using our trusted friend Trent to solve this.

<br>

* * *

## Wide Mouth Frog

* * *

A good base would be simply to ask trent to send over a session key to Bob.
The server needs to know which symmetric keys to use so Alice should also identify
herself and the intended recipient.

$$
\begin{align*}
A\to T: A, \{B, K_{AB}\}_{K_{AT}}\\
T\to B: \{A, K_{AB}\}_{K_{BT}}
\end{align*}
$$

This is similar to the *Wide Mouth Frog* protocol, let's study its shortcomings.

We first notice that though Mallory can't execute the same man-in-the-middle
attack, Alice is in charge of generating the keys which can be a problem
if we don't trust users to generate secure session keys. In particular,
if Mallory is able to crack an old key, he can decipher any previously saved
messages and resend Bob

$$
M\to B: \{A, K_{AB}\}_{K_{BT}}
$$

which featured the insecure key convinving Bob that he is speaking with
Alice when it is in fact Mallory on the other end.

This can be fixed by having Trent generate the keys and including a timestamp
across messages to guarantee "freshness" so Trent and Bob don't accept messages
sent much later.

There is also the issue that if Bob is offline, Trent is wasting resources
trying to reach him while other users also need Trent's services. This
can be fixed by giving Alice the key and having her establish a connection
with Bob.

<br>

* * *

## Needham-Schroeder

* * *

Our improved protocol now looks something like this:

$$
\begin{align*}
A\to T: &A, B, N_A &&\text{Alice identifies herself and the intended recipient including a nonce}\\
T\to A: &\{ N_A, K_{AB}, B, \{ K_{AB}, A \}_{K_{BT}} \}_{K_{AT}}
\end{align*}
$$

The server generates a secure key packaging it in a message only Alice
can see and a second to be read by Bob. Trent responds with the same nonce
to ensure freshness.

$$
\begin{align*}
A\to B: &\{ K_{AB},A \}_{K_{BT}}&&\text{Alice forwards Trent's message to Bob}\\
B\to A: &\{ N_B \}_{K_{AB}}&&\text{Bob sends a Nonce to confirm they agreed on a key}\\
A\to B: &\{ N_B-1 \}_{K_{AB}}&&\text{Alice performs a simple operation to confirm}
\end{align*}
$$

Finally, Bob check he received $$N_B-1$$ meaning that the session key has been
established and they may communicate.

Unfortunately this still has one major oversight, though Alice no longer
generates the session keys, a compromised session key is still much more dangerous
than it needs to be.

Suppose Mallory stores the message

$$
\{ K_{AB},A \}_{K_{BT}}\\
$$

and 6 months later, obtains the session key $$K_{AB}$$ one way or another. Mallory
can replay this message to Bob

$$
M\to B: \{ K_{AB},A \}_{K_{BT}}\\
$$

and Bob is convinced he is communicating with Alice despite Mallory being on the
other end. There are a few ways to fix this, let's consider a popular solution
implemented in the
[Kerberos protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kerberos_(protocol)).

<br>

* * *

## Simplified Kerberos

* * *

Using the same notation, we can describe a protocol which is similar to
Kerberos though with some detail omitted.

$$
\begin{align*}
A\to T: &A, B&&\text{Alice identifies herself and the intended recipient}\\
T\to A: &\{ T,L,K_{AB},B \}_{K_{AT}}\{ T,L,K_{AB},A \}_{K_{BT}}
\end{align*}
$$

Trent responds with Timestamp $$T$$, lifetime $$L$$ symmetric key,
and who they will be communicating with.

$$
A\to B: \{ A,T \}_{K_{AB}}\{ T,L,K_{AB},A \}_{K_{BT}}
$$

Alice sends Bob the key information and timestamp to confirm proper receipt.

$$
B\to A: \{ T+1 \}_{K_{AB}}
$$

Bob confirms everything went through properly with an agreed-upon
modification to the timestamp.

<br>

* * *

## Kerberos Details

* * *

For a more detailed look into the Kerberos protocol, we set up a new scenario
with different actors. In this case, we have a client $$C$$ who wants to connect
to a service $$S$$. Key distribution is handled by an Authentication server $$A$$
and a Ticket-granting Server $$T$$ which are trusted.

Additionally, $$T$$ shares symmetric keys $$K_T$$ with $$A$$ and shares $$K_S$$
with $$S$$ while $$A$$ and $$C$$ both have $$K_C$$ (usually some derived from a
password $$C$$ uses to log in).

The remaining terms such as $$L$$ for lifetime, $$T^*$$ for timestamp, and
$$K$$ representing keys remains the same.

The protocol is as follows:

$$
\begin{align*}
C\to A: &A\\
A\to C: &\{ K_{CT} \}_{K_C}, \{ K_{CT}, A, L \}_{K_T}\\
C\to T: &\{ K_{CT}, A, L \}_{K_T}, \{ A, T \}_{K_{CT}}\\
T\to C: &\{ K_{CS} \}_{K_{CT}}, \{ K_{CS}, A, L \}_{K_S}\\
C\to S: &\{ K_{CS}, A, L \}_{K_S}, \{ A, T^* \}_{K_{CS}}\\
S\to C: &\{ T^* \}_{K_{CS}}
\end{align*}
$$

<br>

* * *

## Lessons Learned

* * *

Through this, we have learned just how careful one needs to be when desiging
and choosing which protocol to use. The same advice of never rolling your
own crypto especially applies here where there are so many avenues of attack.
On top of that, this all relies on proper use and upkeep of the Trent server.

<br>

* * *

## References

* * *

Applied Cryptography 3.1-3.3, 24.5

