---
layout: post
title: 'Multiple Key Public Key (Secret Broadcasting)'
category: 'Cryptographic Protocols'
author: 'reo'
tags: Protocols 'Secret Broadcasting' 'Multiple Key Public Key'
mathjax: true
---

Traditional public-key cryptography solves a problem with
communication between two parties, this can be further generalized.
Suppose you would like to broadcast a message so that only specific
subsets of designated listeners can decipher, this is the idea
behind Multiple-Key Public-Key cryptography. It turns out, this
also has applications in DRM.

## Contents
{:.no_toc}

* Content
{:toc}

<br>

* * *

## Goals

* * *

The goal is simple, for a set of listeners $$L_1,\ldots, L_n$$
we would like to be able to efficiently broadcast messages to
arbitrary subsets.

<br>

* * *

## First Attempt

* * *

We can go the traditional route and exchange different keys with
every listener encrypting the message differently for each listener.

This results in encrypting the same message many times over and
--- if $$n$$ is very large --- becomes unnecessarily inefficient.

Another idea may be to create keys which correspond to every possible
and encrypt accordingly. This results in an exponential growth in
keys not to mention the added burden of needing to secure and
keep track of those keys. This is even less efficient.

<br>

* * *

## Boyd's Protocol

* * *

Colin Boyd suggested a solution. At a high level, we generate
$$n$$ keys, encrypt the message with $$k < n$$ of those, and
require the $$n-k$$ unused keys to decrypt (similar to
Secret Splitting).

<!--syntax hilight fix-->

This is best ilustrated with an
example so suppose $$T$$ wants to broadcast a message amongst
listeners $$L_1, L_2, L_3$$. The keys are fist distributed as
follows:

| Listener |  Keys given  |
|:--------:|:------------:|
|  $$L_1$$ | $$K_2, K_3$$ |
|  $$L_2$$ | $$K_1, K_3$$ |
|  $$L_3$$ | $$K_1, K_2$$ |

with this, encrypting with $$K_1$$ results in a message only
$$L_1$$ can read and encypting with both $$K_2, K_3$$ will allow
anyone with $$K_1$$ to read the message. In this case,
$$L_2$$ and $$L_3$$.

<br>

* * *

## Weakening the Assumptions

* * *

While this does work for most subsets, this actually doesn't
allow for a message which all listeners can decrypt.
There also needs to be some way to communicate the intended
listeners so they know which keys are needed to properly
decrypt the message.

More importantly, collusion of any two malicious actors
can read any message sent by $$T$$ since they would have
the whole set of keys.

Chiou and Chen suggest another solution

<br>

* * *

## Conference Key Distribution

* * *

In this example, $$T$$ shares only one key
$$K_1, K_2, K_3, K_4, K_5$$
with each
listener respectively such that the $$K_i$$ are
pairwise prime and larger than any message expected
to be sent.

To send $$m$$ to be read only by $$L_3, L_4, L_5$$,
$$T$$ first generates a
random key $$K$$ and computes a large $$R$$ such that

$$
\begin{align*}
R&\equiv 0\pmod{K_1}\\
R&\equiv 0\pmod{K_2}\\
R&\equiv K\pmod{K_3}\\
R&\equiv K\pmod{K_4}\\
R&\equiv K\pmod{K_5}\\
\end{align*}
$$

This is straightforward using CRT. Finally, $$T$$ sends
$$\{ m \}_K, R$$

If the listener is the intended recipient, they get the
key required to decrypt the message. Otherwise, they get
0 and know they are not the intended recipient.

<br>

* * *

## Applications

* * *

Though the procedure is best illustrated as broadcasting
messages to users, the most impactful applications are in
protecting the rights of content owners aka DRM
(see bibliography) and in multi-party signatures
(to be covered).

<br>

* * *

## References

* * *

Applied Cryptography 3.5, 22.7 + slides bibliography

### Applications in DRM

Halevy, D., Shamir, A. The LSD Broadcast Encryption Scheme // Advances in Cryptology (Crypto 2002). Lecture Notes in Computer Science 2442. Springer-Verlag - 2002. 

https://www.site.uottawa.ca/~stan/csi5389/readings/ieeebroad.pdf

